Hi friends
In this video we will discuss about functions returning structure
pointers.
So we already learned about passing a structure pointer to a
function and using it how can we access the structure
members and even modify them from the function itself
Now let us learn how functions can return a structure
pointer
so see this example programme
Here we have to call a function, read the structure
elements from there and return it to main and print it
there
First we have the structure declaration for employee with members
name, age and weight
Next we can see the prototype of a function
getDetails which returns a structure employee pointer. Now in main
we create a structure pointer 'e' and call the function
get details, so the control goes to the function and
it is pushed onto the stack
now if we create a local structure variable, read the data to
it and return it to main
It will result in dangling pointer as the structure members
are deleted from the stack after the return
So we should create a memory dynamically in the function
and return to the calling function
Here we have a structure pointer declaration for ptr
and using malloc
we assign dynamic memory
So we get the memory for structure employee allocated
Suppose it is allocated at address 1024.
So ptr will store 1024
Now we ask the user to enter the employee details
and suppose the user enters name equal to abc
age equal to 20 and weight equal to 55.5
And these values are stored into this allocated memory
Now we return ptr
that is 1024 to the calling function main and
store it in e. So e now points to this
address 1024
And now when we write e->name we get abc
So it will get printed in the first print
statement
Similarly when we print e->age we will get 20
printed and then we print e->weight
We will get 55.5 printed
Now that we're done with this memory we can delete it
using the function free
And finally the programme returns
Zero
So that's all and thank you for watching this video